What is unethical as fuck, but is extremely common practice in the business world?
Firing a manager then dumping their responsibilities on a regular worker with no pay raise.More generally, not replacing workers as they exit and dumping the workload on the dwindling staff without increased pay.


Not paying invoices until you've been chased multiple times. As standard policy.Had a boss who did this, but hated it when people did it to them. Boss claimed they paid late because everyone else did, but there are plenty of arguments each way there.

Boss also hated it when one creditor applied to have the company wound-up (liquidated) for non-payment because of the delay.

In boss's semi-defence it was like the proverbial sledgehammer to crack a nut; the bill was for a relatively small amount of money.

In the creditor's defence, I think they were making a point about the whole late payment practise in general.A tactic that should be used more often. It's usually cheap and easy, and nothing moves a payment like the threat of bankruptcy.I took another business to court over a small GBP 2,900 debt as they kept promising to pay and never did. Got the County Court judgement moved it up to the High Court and sent the bailiffs round.

In the company's car park was one Rolls Royce, 2 Jaguars, a Porsche and an Audi, they still refused to pay, assaulted the bailiffs who called the police and the Commercial Director of the company was arrested for attacking the bailiffs. Computer equipment which new would have cost upwards of GBP 20k was seized to be sold at auction to settle my High Court Writ.

I did get paid in the end but it cost the other side north of GBP 10k to settle the debt.

I later learned that the company has a history of not paying invoices but no one dared to take them to court due to threats being made to suppliers.




I worked as a fraud investigator at a bank. We have rules and laws that we have to abide by, or the company got fined. I had a higher up (probably second or third tier from CEO) tell us explicitly that there are no exceptions to the rules "except for our more affluent customers".That's why I hate management, they lie.

"Oh next year you guys will have the holidays off..." 

I'm still working every holiday.

"You can't use your cell phones because it's a security issue, a security guard will escort anyone out that uses their phone"

-Same manager walks by on their cell phone an hour later.If it’s not in print, it’s just talkThis is such underrated advice right here.




I hate how convoluted it is to cancel a **gym membership** in most places. It's super shady. Sometimes you HAVE to mail a letter to the companies headquarters. Canceling at the gym isn't enough. Lots of people have gotten bills months later even though they were told over and over it was complete.I had such a hard time canceling my Planet Fitness membership I finally had to cancel the card it withdrew from.I canceled PF a couple years ago by telling the front counter that I didn't want my membership any more. I think I had to sign something. Took one last tootsie roll and left. Did it change?I have no idea if it was just that one location or what. I went up and signed a paper, I called, I emailed, and they continued to charge me. I hadn’t used the membership in like six months before I decided to cancel because I moved across the state. I always thought it might have had to do with the fact that I didn’t cancel at the original location I signed up at.This is why people should use more local gyms that won't bullshit you. My local gym is small, but I pay upfront without needing to pay any fees if I stop paying. I just stop getting access to the gym and it's done.We are dangerously close to the plot for “Dodgeball” here.






When I worked part time at sams club, the manager was intentionally cutting our hours back to take away from our bonus and add to his at the end of the year.This also happened when my husband and I worked at The Home Depot. The bonus was more than some people make annually. One of the ASMs straight up bought a new car.


Chronically and purposely understaffing. Looking at you, retail and Assisted Living companies.The staff who take care of our aging citizens...are being treated like dirt.I never realized (no family members in LTC facilities) how bad this problem was until I did a clinical rotation in a nursing home. 1 nurse to 20 patients, 1 CNA to 10 patients...they were absolutely not being turned/briefs checked every two hours, barely getting full bed baths daily, let alone personal interaction that is vital for quality of life and wellbeing at that age. It breaks my goddamn heart to watch the CNAs deal with patients, yanking them around in the beds. 

And apparently I was at one of the “better” facilities in town. I will cry if I ever have to put my parents or grandparents in a home like that.

ETA: I’ve said this in comments below, but I am absolutely NOT putting blame on the CNA/aids. This is an incredibly complex issue of making LTC affordable, but also needing to pay staff, as well as having enough cash leftover to actually *treat* patients. Most CNAs/aids are saints, and those people are very much appreciated and respected. Burnout is very real. You are worth so much more than $10-12/hour. I love you. Thank you for everything you do for your patients.It breaks our hearts, too. We (at least, myself and the people I work with) try our god damn hardest every single day. We’re stressed as hell as burnt out, but it’s the residents that are suffering the most.I’m not solely putting blame on the nurses/CNAs themselves. It’s really easy for me to walk into a LTC facility for my 2 six-hour shifts each week and say “How could you treat these people like this?” But I’m not the one who’s there for 12 hours a day, 3-4 days a week, dealing with the same patients—some of whom were incredibly frustrating and annoying, in purpose—on top of being short-staffed and underpaid. I can’t imagine that level of burnout. 

I will say this: there was one CNA I really disliked. She was rude, gruff, she yelled at the patients for sliding down in beds and making her work. It wasn’t just burnout, it was unnecessary force used on patients who cannot defend themselves, speak up, reposition themselves, etc. That, I have a real fucking problem with and I did pass that feedback onto my nursing instructor with very specific instances/descriptions of such behavior. It wasn’t the type of abuse that goes viral on Facebook, but it was still incredibly NOT okay.





Using a bid process to get competitive information and then use it to negotiate a deal instead of awarding the bid you advertised

Unpaid internships are supposed to be on-site learning opportunities but are often just slave labor.It's actually illegal for an unpaid intern to do anything that can be considered work for the company. But it hardly gets reported because those interns want/need that slave internship to get into their career field.https://www.tennessean.com/story/money/2018/06/12/martina-mcbride-husband-and-blackbird-studios-sued-former-employee-over-use-unpaid-interns/693922002/

This story made me very happy and I really wish I could find the outcome to the lawsuit. I know personally how fucking garbage their internship program is. They literally tell you how many toilets there are to clean in the interview. Fuck the McBrides.As a student intern, I got yelled at along with the other intern when the office got really busy and we weren't helping enough. Hahah FIRST of all, we weren't trained to do check-ins, where most of the chaos was happening. Second of all, like, yell at your staff? They're the ones who you're paying and who should know what the hell is going on and who should be able to delegate shit to the lowly interns. I basically gave my notice that day and transferred to another internship site. They weren't bad and I learned a lot but I draw the line at being yelled at when I'm not even on pay roll.


The multitudes of ways in which work life bleeds into personal life and you're expected to just accept that(and worse, actively embrace it) else you're perceived as someone who doesn't want to get ahead or otherwise isn't as valued as the person who does. The company will always try and get more free time from you but far less than always (bordering on never) actually give you back what that extra time costs.Another subset of this is when you go above and beyond for a company once (out of external pressure or just the goodness of your heart), and suddenly that becomes part of your job. And god forbid if you ask for extra pay because of this.Totally agree. Had a colleague who would come in an hour earlier than her start time because she needed to drop her kid off at school, and it just worked out easier for her to come in at that time. She would still only take her assigned lunch and leave at 5pm, so was working an additional hour each day.

One day she didn't come in until *slightly* later than her start time, and my god you should have heard the bitching from people who just *expected* her at this point to be there early. I wasn't particularly high ranking in the company at that time, but you can be sure I set those people straight.Thanks for standing up for her!To be honest she wasn't very nice and was a huge gossip... But still, an injustice is an injustice. She didn't deserve to be thought poorly of for that.Even more respect for going to bat for someone you didn't necessarily approve of




Just had a team "pep talk" from my boss Friday. Talking about how we're super busy, and he realizes that he's putting a lot of new projects on us, but how important it is to his boss that our team keeps knocking it out of the park day in and day out. And bossman is just SO confident that we'll do whatever it takes to make sure everything gets done, coming in early, staying late, working weekends, etc. Fuck. That. I don't get paid extra for any of that shit. And if I have to put the kids in daycare longer I'm going to LOSE money staying to "help out." Go to hell, hire some people. I don't care if shit doesn't get done on time, when 5pm rolls around my ass is already in the parking lot.Yeah when I was still working that was my mindset too. You didn’t give me enough time to complete a task? Sucks for you bitch. I work at the speed of light but if you don’t give me adequate time there’s no way I, or anyone, can finish in time and that’s your problem, not mine. I have a family, I have a life. And I will not screw them for a job that pays hardly anything. It’s a large part of why I left. I was so sick of the shit that was thrown my way. Of course, in my job, there was basically no hope of any kind of promotion or even increase in salary so I legitimately didn’t care.

I know this obviously applies to a lot of work environments but it's absolutely horrendous in education. Teachers are expected to compete certain tasks (grading work, creating activities, technology training, etc) and literally do not have enough time to do it all. In addition, there are a lot of after school activities they try to guilt you into attending (games, plays, etc). If you don't go to these things, you get marked down on your evaluations. The whole thing's absurd.I asked my supervisor how I was supposed to get all of their extra work done that had literally nothing productive to do with my students and impeded me from actually planning for and helping my students and all she could tell me was to come in early and stay later. 

I was already coming in an hour early and staying and hour later at LEAST. 

I just stopped that entirely and when questioned by email why I didn't have my arbitrary tasks completed I cited what I had been doing each prep period that kept me from having the time. My principal is terrified of the union head cracking down on him so I wait for him to initiate questioning by email so I have the written evidence.Now imagine having to have that conversation without union protection. It sucks, man.




raising prices before putting items on saleLooking at you, Kohl’sAs a former kohl’s cashier, I can attest that they are the WORST with this. It should be illegal.What are you *talking* about? I was just at Kohl’s the other day. I bought 5 things and I spent $42 **but I saved $398!!!** Thats just amazing!Boy, I sure pulled one over on all of those stupid assholes who bought these Sonoma hoodies at the original $90 price.Pulled one over hahaNo, it’s a cardigan but thanks.


As a former Kohl's customer, that is exactly why I no longer shop there.

Not just having to wait for a "sale" to get a fair price, but all the games with Kohl's cash and stuff.I don't shop there that much, but now and then we get a combination of coupons and Kohl's cash in the mail that lets us go get a couple pairs of pants and a shirt for like 5 bucks or something.

I agree that their "sale prices" are literally just imaginary, though.  Their "% off" tags are just lying.

It's illegal in some US states. My dad did consumer fraud in California when I was younger and went after stores that did this.

Any grocery store. I buy the same shit every week and I know what the prices are, I know you literally made the price on this 150% and marked it down to regular price.

Edit: I refuse to buy Chobani for more than $1 each. Fuck off with your 1.89 marked down to 1.25.Or the price stays the same and the packaging shrinks. I'm looking at you, Hot Tamales, every cereal brand, Sunbelt granola bars, Oreos, Lays, etc. Seriously, family sized options are what normal ones were when I was a kid.

They (and other places I'm sure) price things cartoonishly high to begin with so they can be permanently on "sale".

I worked there for a short time doing after hours signage changes for sale pricing (before digital signage), and many things are literally always on sale. The % might fluctuate slightly, but that's it.

Welcome to retail. Literally, re-tailing prices on goods so their store makes money.

JCPenney is also widely known for marking items up, and sending out "coupons" to take it down to a standard retail. Their customers like the "thrill of the hunt".JCP tried changing their marketing strategy away from the sales and coupons towards just normal low prices and their sales plummeted as a result.  They've since gone back but I don't think they've recovered yet.Yeah, unfortunately, people don't want a $20 shirt. They want a $60 shirt for $20, even though it's the same damn shirt.It's the sense of urgency a sale price creates. If I don't buy this today, it might be back up to $60 next week. If it's $20 today, tomorrow, and next week, you might not pick it up today. Then a week later you realize you don't really need it, or you find something else you like better





Purposefully giving part time employees erratic schedules so they can't take on a second job.lol I worked at a restaurant that did this, so my coworkers and I made our own schedules and traded shifts every week to keep it consistent

manager couldn't do shit about it because we were allowed to trade shifts, and changing that policy would make half the place quitCongratulations, you basically created a union1 union pls.

You're fortunate. A lot of places in my current town would basically have nipped that in the bud to begin with, then colluded with other restaurant owners to effectively blackball the people for awhile.&gt; then colluded with other restaurant owners 

restaurant owners typically do whatever they can to fuck their competition in my experience (stealing employees is normal)

but truth be told, it only worked because it was a small outfit

one of the reasons schedules vary is because the restaurant isn't busy every night. it would suck ass to only work monday-wednesday, so there does need to be *some* variation and that was easy to manage with only 6 people to worry about


Dang. Never even thought about this. I always wondered why it was so hard to give people normal, set schedules. This opens my eyes!When I worked at McDonalds the managers would set the schedule each week. The number of workers and total hours required was always the same (except on public holidays etc) but the scheduling was pretty much completely random and only done 1-2 weeks ahead of time so you'd never know when you were going to be working.

I was a good employee and always got as many hours as I wanted (was in high school), but I'm pretty sure the main reason for it was so that they could reduce the hours for shitty employees. I saw a few new people start and obviously not perform very well, so within a few weeks they'd be down to like 8 hours a week tops
It's to make it easy to cut hours. An employee under constant threat of less hours is more compliant, and easier to get rid of, without risk.

This is especially evil because it has absolutely zero benefit for the company-- and it takes managers longer to draw up a new schedule every week, so if anything it either costs the company more or takes time away from other activities the manager could be doing. It's purely about controlling the lowest people on the totem pole.


Hiding fees until the service is provided.I was in a car accident that required an ambulance ride, and I was charged DOUBLE for it. Apparently the 2 ambulance companies in my area are in cahoots, so rather than share the business in my area 50/50, they apparently devised a way to “split” it 100/100. They each have one person from the other company ride in their company’s ambulance. The explanation I received was since a medic from the other company was riding along in the ambulance I took, they now can both charge me. Again, they didn’t split the fee. They each charged me fully. It’s almost a brilliant scheme, but also absolutely unethical and ridiculous, and I can’t fathom how this is even legal. On a side note, they didn’t even treat me on the ride.Imagine airlines double-charging for a seat because one of the pilots was from another airline.

Insanity.But you only find out how much the flight costs after you landand you absolutely need to take that flight, else you might die.And it ends up costing more than your car is worth


&lt;RyanAir wants to know your location&gt;

I don't know where to start with that. Sue them? Go to the newspapers? Go to the district attorney?There should be a government agency to handle corporate theft from consumers. If some random guy stole $3k from me, I could go to the police. If my health insurance promises they'll pay for X and then renege and that costs me $3k, I have no recourse whatsoever, even though it's also a form of theft, and fraud. 

And it's not just healthcare, corporations have a lot of people over a barrel-- it's just that with healthcare in particular, you often don't have a choice. You can hardly choose not to get the care you need.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was doing a great job with that until a bunch of bankers got appointed to run it and promptly burnt it to the ground. Returned billions of dollars to people over the course of a few years, but it's been effectively killed because it was costing businesses too much.
You have recourse. It's paying a lawyer to sue.

And then hoping you get attorneys fees covered in an award/settlement

And then hoping the actual settlement is worth the unfathomable time you have to sink into bringing the case

All the while hoping that you can afford to invest in your legal fees against the possibility you lose the case. There are no lawyers out there that will take a 3k case on contingency.

So you yeah, technically you have recourse, it's just that regulatory capture and corruption has made it wildly impractical


Unfortunately this doesn't surprise me. I mean, hospitals do it all the time. Let's say you are having surgery. You have no say in who is on the surgical team that day. Anesthesiologist might not be in your insurance carrier's network, and you had no idea. Now, all of a sudden not only do you have a bill from the hospital for the surgery that you will likely have to argue line by line with the insurance company over, you now get a second bill from the anesthesiologist that insurance won't cover at all. Your $3,000 co-insurance payment due is now $13,000. Or, let's say your surgeon calls in a consult to the OR while you are unconscious. Again, you have no say so, and your bill just increased by thousands for 5 minutes of someone's time.

Our medical system is fucked to all hell.My wife was 15 minutes from going into surgery to have a C-section to have our son, and before we let the medical team wheel her in, I got on the phone with our insurance company to make sure the anesthesiologist they assigned to the surgical team was in our network. 

Luckily he was (and was excellent) but the fact that I had to call is totally bananas.I just experienced this the hard way when my wife went in for her breast cancer surgery. Anesthesiologist was NOT covered and that bill alone was $5,000.I’ve tried to make the hospital responsible in the past. 

“Hey we would like to run this test”

Sure, as long as it’s covered under my standard deductible and not my surgical deductible. 

“Um.... it probably is”

Ok, well just check.

“Ummmm..... we don’t do that”

Ok, well give me an estimate beforehand.

“Ummm.. it’s probably covered”

Why do you have so many people in hospital billing again?



Find a journalist in your local paper who seems to have a beat that includes this sort of thing. Most of us would *love* to find a big scoop like this.

I'm looking at you here, ambulance companies.


I don't know about "unethical as fuck," but going through the motions of pretending to entertain outside candidates when you've already decided on who internally will get the job.  Wastes everyone's time.Sometimes it's company policy to post and interview for all positions. Especially within a union setting.

It's extremely frustrating because I've been dragged through a good half dozen interviews/call backs when they already had someone lined up (usually someone's relative).Yes, this happened to me as well.

Internal job applications are tailored for the specific candidate, and they just interview other applicants because they are bound by HR rules saying they must.&gt; Internal job applications are tailored for the specific candidate, and they just interview other applicants because they are bound by HR rules saying they must.

I've seen some hilarious examples while looking for the job I just got a few months ago. My favorite was: 

Entry level position, Mechanical Engineer, must have experience working hands on with the Trident 3 SLBM (sea-launched ballistic missile) system. 

Like how many entry level people have experience working with a classified ballistic missile? I figured fuck it, applied, got an email *then a call* asking about my experience with the Trident 3 missile, told them I couldn't answer due to its classified nature, was promptly hung up on.

Edit: see italicsReminds me of a relative who applied to a job with a company that processes satellite images into maps for the military.  It required security clearance and a ton of educational background, which he actually had.  After jumping through all their hoops he was told it paid minimum wage and was on a rotating shift every week.   I don't blame him one bit for walking out.Requires masters degree and 10+ years experience, 25 hours per week, minimum wage

Strangely enough, I am on the opposite spectrum of that situation and work on the Trident 3 missile's thrust vectoring system. I've always wondered what the situation will be like if I look for another job and they inquire, but I can't actually answer due to the sensitive nature of the job.
&gt;got an email asking about my experience with the Trident 3 missile, told them I couldn't answer due to its classified nature, was promptly hung up on.

LMAO oh shit. That is a great answer though!





Treating people bad, to make them quit the job because you don’t have the balls to fire them or you are afraid that the “word” your company can fire someone anytime will spread and you will lose control.I think this has to do with avoiding paying benefits. I think employers can sometimes be made to pay some amount of their fired employee's unemployment benefits. There are a million different variables to consider how and when this sort of this would apply, though.In the US, unemployment benefits basically work like an insurance policy. If you fire someone, that person makes a claim and get paid. Then the employer's unemployment insurance rates go up because a claim had to be paid. So yes, companies actively avoid firing because if they force you to quit, then your claim gets denied and their rates don't go up.



This one was *"invented"* by Walmart, but I know that Home Depot does it too; I am sure other larger companies to it as well:

1. Place an order with a well legally crafted Purchase Order, one of the T&amp;C is that "The company reserves the right to cancel the order at any time for any reason" 
2. The smaller company receiving the PO is all excited and they go ahead to fill the order. This often involves paying out (or borrowing money) in order to fulfill the order
3. After the product is ready to be shipped, the buyer calls the company saying stuff like "The pricing need work, we can't make money at this price point, we need some concessions".. practically they negotiate a lower price that results in the seller:

* working for very little money 
* **OR** barely breaking even
* **OR** losing money on the order(s) at times so badly to go out of business.

[Read the story of Vlasic](https://www.fastcompany.com/47593/wal-mart-you-dont-know)This has happened to my business in the past and now I ask that any special or significantly large order be able to put a down payment (usually 50% or enough to cover our expense). However, some companies act like asking for a down payment is the same as grabbing their partners ass and act tremendously offended. And I apologize for the crude remark but I was struggling to think of a analogy.

Most companies understand, but there are a few that refuse. And to be clear, I am not talking about bureaucratic instances like how the military cannot split payments.I work in the steel business. I do the same thing. 

But my analogy is, you can't buy 40 burgers from McD's and expect to pay them a month later, and after you ate the food. So why do folks think they can get supplies upfront without paying a dime? SMH, I'm with you, brotherShould be standard practice that materials should get covered up front at least

Our standard terms are Net 30, with a down payment on projects that are over 50k. Pretty standard for the industry. I had a company tell me they didn't understand why they had to pay a penalty to do business with us. They were saying the down payment was a penalty. And this was a company that has been around for a long time. Unbelievable,&gt; And this was a company that has been around for a long time.

Yeah, probably by unethically exploiting businesses that aren't as insistent as you are when they try to argue their way out of the down payment. They understand completely and were just playing dumb.

I used to build fences for a living. I wasn't an owner, but I ran a crew, and received a portion of profit as well as set bonuses for hitting certain milestones. Basically I ran a little fence business for less money that I would have made for actually starting a business, but I used somebody else's tools and didn't have to fuck around with paperwork, insurance, etc. 



We were contacted to do a tearout and install on a VERY nice property. I won't say where, but the house and land probably cost a couple mil. Guy wants ALL the bells and whistles. Basically the most expensive fence you can build out of wood. I sat him down and went over all the costs for the fence. We had a formula that basically tallied up the expense per linear foot for whatever upgrades you wanted, and then I made judgement calls for added cost due to tricky locations, etc. The dude doesn't bat an eye at the VERY high total, gives us the green light. 



Well the day to start the install arrives. I show up with a large trailer absolutely full to the brim with posts, pockets, rails, etc. I have the guys help me unload, and once we have it all set out the guy comes out with the contract and says he looked it over and didn't think the price was right, could we make it work for x amount. I told him no. Dude clearly thought he had us over a barrel, and eventually pointed out that we were already on the hook for materials, so surely we would rather make a bit less profit instead of lose money. Clearly he had either read about this shit or had done it at his day job.



I basically told him to take a flying fuck at a rolling doughnut. We have a good relationship with the supplier, they won't bat an eye if I take it all back. And the contract pretty clearly states that the customer is responsible for paying for all work done if they opt to change their mind. Considering that literally everything was labor at that point, the company was actually making MORE profit per hour, due to how we split up everything. He tried to walk it back, I told him no thank you, we're booked solid, and I see no reason to deal with a customer who I know will try to play fuck fuck games for the whole project. 



This was 0% a bluff. I wasn't about it. My boss didn't give a damn what I did as long as we turned a profit every month. When the guy realized I was serious, he starts mouthing off about how he won't pay, jobs not done, etc. So I told him we would just put a lien on his house and call it a day. I've got contracts and photos, might take a while to get paid, but we WILL get paid. 



We ended up getting paid the contracted amount, and I went on to a much easier fence.So you didn't end up installing the fence for him?I had to read this a few times to figure it out, since OP hasn't commented to clarify yet.   


Sounds like the customer was on the hook for the hours spent acquiring materials, prepping and showing up to the job site; so he had to pay that amount (not the full contracted amount).


The company I work for does a variation of this. When we bill, we expect payment within 30 days. We only pay invoices after 60 day.s Sometimes I have to fight with AP for 5-6 months to get vendors paid. It's really mortifying and we have lost good vendors over it because the smaller companies can't afford to wait that long on a tens of thousands of dollars contract. I recently heard that the company doesn't pay expense reports the last month of the fiscal year too - it makes the bottom line look better at reporting time. I think this should be illegal. It seems like manipulation.At least you pay them!

&gt; I think this should be illegal. It seems like manipulation.

It is manipulation and it is illegal. But, it's civil, so one has to sue those companies and... at times it's not worth it.



My old salaried position requires copious amounts of overtime. In the end my hourly wage was less than the people I was supervisingSalary is a fucking scam. Their whole argument is that way it doesn't matter how much you work you get paid the same amount. So if you have a slow week with little to do, you can leave early and not worry. It'll just be balanced out when it's crunch time and you have to do unpaid OT. Thing is, there's basically never a time where you have so little work you can skip out, and on the occasions that you can, good luck not getting in trouble for making the company "pay you for not doing anything." Never mind that you're doing extra work for no pay far more often.Salary is a scam because they put a floor on the amount of hours you're expected to work but not a ceiling.



Not telling people employees that the company or division has a planned date to shut down, then letting them go the day of.  This happens everywhere from major mega-corporations to mom and pop restaurants.  There are reasons as to why, given that there's still money to be made up until the last minute and you don't want your employees to slack off.  

And while obviously it's devastating to the employees who get laid off, it can also be pretty bad to the employees aren't getting laid off but have to be told ahead of time and can't say anything.It's also to protect stock(at least with public companies), if investors find out that a company is going bust they will run, the stock price and value of the company plummets, and the business goes out of business even quickerAbsolutely.  And not just stocks, if there's other money coming in like advertising sales or product orders, they don't want to devalue that months ahead of time.

Tangentially related to this: 

Having employee A train employee B thinking they are going to work in another location.  But actually, employee B is replacing employee A, employee B knows this and can't say anything.


Unpaid overtime, more colloquially referred to as being on salary.Missus had a job in a mom and pops marketing firm. They where highly overworked salaried employees. The conversation came up about hiring another designer, the bosses response "Why the fuck would I hire another employee when I can make all of you salaried employees work 24/7 if I wanted to."

The business is now on life support, and has gone from 10 employees to 2.&gt; "Why the fuck would I hire another employee when I can make all of you salaried employees work 24/7 if I wanted to."

&amp;nbsp;

*"Why the fuck would I work 24/7 when I can just go get a job without a dipshit boss?"*

&amp;nbsp;

I'd rather be fucking homeless than ever let someone talk to me like that



Loyalty is punished by laying the most work on the most productive, while overlooking these workers For promotionsIf you’re a great worker, they give you the shit jobs because you don’t bitch and moanI can confirm. I was moved 5x in one year at my last job because I wouldn’t raise a fuss. I also was one of the few to work every team. It didn’t help me come lay off time.

Edit:  The last move that year was to a different building &amp; department, they told me the day I came back from bereavement. I’m still salty about that 7 years  laterAlso, the more work you do, the greater the chance of making a mistake. Those who do Jack-shit never make any mistakes, whereas the hardest workers get it in the neck for every minor error.Same problem with being the "honest guy" who owns up to errors. Enjoy getting chewed out or perceived as a fuck up for admitting that you made an honest mistake (obviously there's times when that's still deserved) and then watch as suddenly every error that happens for two months leads them to go "Do you know anything about this?"  


Meanwhile, observe your coworker who fucks up but stays quiet and how he or she rarely gets chewed or questioned further.

I was moved between departments three times this year. All of the extra duties that I had amassed and actually enjoyed were stripped away from me. I was angry and depressed and actively looking for a new job. Then, a few months later I was made redundant. It’s probably the best thing that could have happened. Both my mental and physical health have improved. After five months of sitting on my ass, I will be starting a new job next week. The only thing that pisses me off is that shortly after the redundancies were made they realised they had made a terrible error and hired a load of new people under a new job title and gave them a starting salary that outstripped what I was making after four years service. I’m not even sure if this is strictly legal under UK employment law, but I’m too exhausted to fight it.


If you are irreplaceable then you are also unpromotable.One of my colleagues tendered her resignation after being passed over for promotion for three or four years. She explained that in the exit interview. The company found out that she had been on the short list for damn near every promotion, but her manager nixed it because she was too valuable to his department. Now she's valuable to another company instead. Idiots, I swear.

At my job they're paying the new employees more money (they take much less calls and fuck around more on the clock) and the ones who have stayed 2+yrs less money (who can easily take 3-5x the calls of the new employees and don't fuck around on the clock).

I've been looking for a new job.   

Edit: I get this is happening at more than just my job. I was just chiming in with my thought on something that is unethical but common.Loyalty penalty is a well-known principle in employment. Companies pay what they have to. 

They have to keep salaries competitive to attract new hires. For existing employees, a large percentage will stay just because they're comfortable or too lazy/inconfident/whatever to look for another job, or they dont even realize their raises arent even keeping up with inflation or industry standard, much less accounting for their increased value due to acquired kbowledge. In my industry, people generally change employers every few years.

It sucks, but its a reality of capitalism, especially in a country where workers rights are a joke.

I had a friend who brought work home and stayed up late to meet her deadlines. She was the only one on the team who did. 

&amp;#x200B;

Then someone got sick, and it turned out none of her 4 items had been done. So they asked about who had time, and since her work was done, she got 2 of them, and 2 other people got one.   


So she brought work hoe [edit: home] and stayed up late, and turned them in close to deadline. 

&amp;#x200B;

The other 2 hadn't even touched their extra assignments, so she was asked to complete them. She told her boss, "I feel like I'm being punished for being conscientious," and her boss got mad at her.


Larger companies that kill competition / innovation by buying out smaller companies just to stop what the smaller company is doing or even keep lobbying the government to create barriers / restrictions for entry.My private lab company got bought by a huuuge lab solely because we were the only lab for hundred of miles that could do a specific set of tests. Within months of buying us, they fired half the company and we lost accreditation for the test and they were never able to regain it. Now they've turned us into a "service provider" and everything we do is based on how much money we can bring the company. Overworked, stressed, 50% of the building is always looking for new jobsAnd I presume the market suffers, too, now that the only local provider of those tests disappeared.

This and regulatory capture. Basically get their people into whatever government body gets in their way and change the rules from within. Ajit Pai is reddit's favorite example of this, but it happens in a bunch of other industries too.
Cough cough walmart cough cough. Ah. Excuse me. I have a cold. Walmart does that. Fuck that place.Walmart holds the record (by far) for the most small businesses put out of business.  Then, after shutting down all local competition and becoming a local monopoly, they will shut down their store if it isn't "profitable" enough, leaving behind an economically destroyed community.  Our enemies couldn't do a better job of economic sabotage.
Cough cough Verizon AT&amp;T looking at you internet stoppers. Fuck big businessComcast / Time Warner Cable


Sorry I don't have a cold.




Favoritism, promoting people into positions who have no business being there.

Employer wage theft is said to exceed the amount of normal theft in the US. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wage_theftYeah, this happened to me.

  I was working as a receptionist for Super8 motel. They decided to fire the night-shift guy for whatever reason so i was working 10pm-6am shift and then also the following 6am to 2pm shift. 16 hours straight. however i really needed the OT so i kept with it. But then after working 60+ hour weeks i saw that my paychecks were only showing 2-3 hours of OT and 55hours of regular pay. When i brought it up to the manager he told me i just didnt understand how the pay works. He said i was mistaking bi-weekly and semi-monthly. Which, he was right. I had never been payed semi-monthly before. So i did research and learned how it should work. however i was still being withheld a bunch of OT hours i deserved. Again i brought it up to the manager and said i would contact the owners of the businness if he didnt fix it. The manager informed me that it was not my place to bug the owner with this stuff and that he would look into it. Of course he *looked into it* and found nothing wrong. So i contacted 5 other chains who did pay similarly to us, documents everything they told me, found federal law requirements for overtime pay and printed all the stuff out. Sat down with the manager again and told him that i know for a fact im right. And if he wont let me talk to the owner, that i will be filing complaints as well as taking them to small claims court. He took my paperwork to meet with the owners and discuss this(i had extra copies so i wasnt concerned).

  Finally he came back to me and apologized for the mix-up. I got an extra check with all my backpay that i was owed (around $1,800) and it was settled. Then they also very quickly hired another receptionist so they wouldnt have to pay me all this overtime anymore. 

  A couple weeks later and i think to myself. Wow these spanish cleaning ladies sure are here late, Im at the desk all the time, i should check their hour sheets(since it all on paper in a binder). Sure enough they are working OT as well. I talked to them and it was not being paid out in their checks and they had no idea that they were being stolen from as well. I quickly told ALL the other employees about the situation provided print-outs explaining semi-monthly pay so that they couldnt be fooled by the managers false explanation like he tried to do with me. 

  Well i guess they must have tried talking to him, because before you know it. He is demanding that i not speak with other employees about pay(which is an illegal request for an employer to make under federal law), and also telling me that if i look at anyones hour sheet but my own that i will be fired for "invasion of privacy". I told him that i knew the company was stealing from these people and that it wasn't ok. He tried to scare me a bit more but i didnt really give a shit anymore. I told every single customer who came in what a shit business this was and the shady shit management was pulling, then i left that job a few days later. Fuck those people, and fuck anyone who tries to pull that kinda shit on their employees. Now i double check my hours everywhere and make sure to get everything in writing. Enough entry-level jobs and you learn that your gonna get screwed everywhere you go. Now i have a good job and it still surprises me when i get paid days off, or vacation time, and even promotions/raises. Workers right's in this country has practically disappeared and its a damn shame.


Firing someone the moment you find out they're looking for another job.This is something I'm actually quite impressed with my current workplace. They know I'm actively looking for a job, but they're still sending me to trainings so I can use that in future employment opportunities.CEO: But what if we train them and they leave?

Trainer: What if you don't and they stay?Waaaay back, I left a company after they had sent me to some training courses (because they asked me to take a job that I knew nothing about, and I required training). I did that job for 3 years, and I gave them 4 months' notice because I knew they were going to have to hire and potentially train someone new.  1 week before I left, they shoved a guy into the job with no knowledge of it from another department.

But anyway, after I left, anyone taking training had to sign an agreement that if they left within 1 year of the training, they had to pay back 100% of the cost of that training, travel expenses, etc.

This was a company with 1200 employees.

Sometimes employers hope that employees realize that its not always greener on the other side. 

I've had employees that left because they wanted more money; their salaries were already competitive. What they later failed to realize was that, the little things they had at the office, where not available at the other company.I can definitely see that, definitely love the people I work with, I wouldnt mind coming back and visiting, but I work in the 911 field. Answering phone calls where I hear people dying just doesnt cut it after 2 years.Yeah, that would take a toll on me.It does, the people I work with are great but some of these people have been here 10+ years, and I know it's not what I want in my life.




A previous employer had a history of firing people when they gave their two weeks notice (citing proprietary and non-compete bs), so it got to the point where people would just not show up and then call, “I quit”. 

Yet management still had the nerve to act surprised each time it happened. 

And they don’t give professional references, they just have a third party verify the dates you were employed. Plus they will not hire you back if you quit, so it’s not like you’re burning any bridges! Edit: by that I mean they wouldn’t allow anyone who supervised you to be listed as a professional reference. I worked there for five years and couldn’t list anyone from there as a professional reference to voice for my work ethic or abilities. It really hindered my job search.

So when I got offered another job, I didn’t give a shit. I called my supervisor on like a Tuesday, told him I wasn’t going to be in that day because I had another offer and started the following week. He asked what my last day would be, and I told him, “well, I guess that would have been yesterday, wouldn’t it?”

Got my last direct deposit and vacation/PTO payout, took a week off between jobs.
My mom’s work just scolded the guy who was looking for another job. I was like, why do you think he cares? He’s already on his way out.


Selling user dataThis is massive, large organizations who donate/contribute large amounts to non-profits (501c3s) frequently strongarm the little charities they basically support into giving up that data for their personal groups marketing and data. "ay give us your membership information or *wink*wink* you might have some issues with your budget next year"

There are a bunch of 501c3s in wyoming that got their data used by the Storer foundation groups during the last few election cycles here. Best way to win votes, play to their heartstrings or where they donate.

edit: tons of bigger money groups do this. i'm just specifying the one I have experience with


Strongly encouraging employees to not share their salaries with one another so that you can play favorites without anyone finding out.

In Australia businesses would open for 11 months. They would sell products for cheaper than their competitors could because they paid no tax on them. Then when tax time came they would wind up the business the start a new one in a months time.

It was so common business tax went from being done yearly (like income tax) to being done 3 monthly.

Might be even more frequent now, I’ve been out of Australia for the last 18 years.

Giving your employees just few enough hours that they don't qualify as a full time employee, so you don't have to pay them benefits.I worked at Wal Mart in high school. There were older adults who worked tons of overtime. Really out their heart into the company. How were they rewarded? At the end of the pay period, they had shifts cancelled to keep them under 40 hours. Such a garbage company. 

You can bet when I witnessed people shoplifting I looked the other way. Fuck that company.Not just cancelled shifts... Written up for going more than 5 minutes over your scheduled clock out time within a pay period. If suddenly tasked with something from management 10 minutes before the end of your shift, you better complete it with enough time to spare to sprint to the time clock to get out on time. Oh, yeah, this is usually being called to register in the middle of a rush. 

But if you clock out and are approached by a customer with a question, you are supposed to still direct them to one of the non-existent people out on the floor (because they only staff for restocking in the morning or running registers), or help them yourself.The Walmart I worked for would have to offer benefits if you worked 32+ hours in a week for 3 weeks straight (provincial law).  You bet you ass I would work 40 hours, 40 hours, 31.5 hours.  Every. Single. Time. 

Better to let the floor go short staffed (produce department) than calling someone in.I worked at Walmart for 2 months and I got reprimanded for clocking in 5 minutes too early even though they specifically told me to be on the floor that early. The manager told me that I cost them $12 so I’ll have to leave early on my shifts to make it back to them. I didn’t know $12 was worth more than embarrassing your employees in front of their coworkers. Needless to say I quit without giving 2 weeks notice. Fuck Walmart.
I was a manger at Gap for a year and a half. They did this same exact thing to me. 31.5 hours every week. 

My boss also told me that she would appreciate if I wouldn’t openly talk about unionizing and that she hated that I actually knew the law about talking about unionizing, otherwise she would have definitely taken disciplinary measures for doing so. 

Also, the music they made us play sucked ass. But they make great khakis. Well, the underpaid, exploited factory workers in Southeast Asia make them, but you get it.
Spooky. I worked in walmart produce section...I feel like I could have written this comment 3 years ago hahaha



And then passive aggressively bully them so that they conform to the schedule you want and leave them negotiating with their other manager at their other job so they can make enough to live.

Meanwhile upper management is clogged with retirement refusal and your manager doesn't want to lose because you're actually trying (because you want to be promoted eventually) so once in a while you get a line about watching you for upcoming opportunities which are always filled via nepotism. 

And what can you do? You just sit there and take it and keep clocking in because you need a paycheck, work all fucking day make no money and go nowhere for people who will never ever have your interests in the neighborhood of their heart.The first part of this is what happens super often in healthcare like LPNs, hospital work, and support workers for people with disabilities. You almost always have to start out as a casual. Often you end up working more hours than people with full-time contracts but get no benefits. You get called constantly and aren't technically allowed to say no. Then the hours dry up so you try to get another job then suddenly you are getting called constantly again. And of course the people with full-time contracts are constantly calling in sick, taking long sick-leaves, going on vacations, etc. but refuse to quit when it's obvious they can't handle the job anymore. And you can't get a second job in the same field because it'll also start out as a casual position, and you can't have two casual jobs and have it work. So instead your second job is lower paying and "less important" so you feel like you can't piss off the first employer or leave clients without proper care when they call. This then causes problems with your second, more stable job and then you end up having to quit.

So fucking irritating.

That happened to me while working at Fred Meyers. They gave me like 38 hours. I was part time I didn't really want more than 20. Ans never 2 days in a row off they were ALWAYS split. So be careful working for them
This happened to me working for a Domino's franchise. I was always scheduled at exactly 32 hours, but realistically was working 35-40 every week because they also had a policy that you had to stay over until one of the managers specifically said you could go home. And if you asked to go home on time you were punished, even if it wasn't busy.Same here. I asked for 20-25 hours but was always scheduled for about 36-38. I always ended up working 42-50 hours due to rushes and a large quantity of closing shifts. Thank God that was just a summer job. My boss tried to keep on without offering me any reason to so I noped the fuck out of there
This is illegal right? Or were you salaried (can you even be salary as a part time)?Yes, this is illegal. You must be paid for the hours you work.


Yep, our city does this. 36 hour work week, every Friday afternoon off. It sounds cool until you realize why they're doing it


Unpaid internships

Hire them as "independent contractors" so that you don't have to actually give them any benefits (travel, healthcare, etc.) and so you have a quick tax writeoff, but still force them to sign exclusive contracts where you can't work anywhere else.

WWE would be freaking screwed if anyone with money ever tried suing them and didn't take a settlement (settlements mean no decision can be made), it would force a decision they wouldn't like.Those "non compete" agreements are unenforceable in the vast majority of cases.


Firing people for medical issues (I don't know about all the states etc if anyone knows please illuminate)

 A coworker of mine took a long medical leave for a spinal issue she was having with her neck, I believe she had surgery and then was on leave for a few weeks. Doc recommended not working more than 4 hours a day, when she came back with that news to HR they fired her on the spot. 

I thought medical issues would be a discriminatory termination but apparently they can just let you go if the state is at will. Sorry you had this invasive surgery that cost you a fortune but you don't have a job anymore see ya

Fine print.

(I always read it because all the bad stuff is there, but so many don’t know to.)I think we don't read it not because we don't know about the threat, but because we feel powerless to do anything about it. I know I do.


The technique where places like Starbucks open an unnecessary amount of stores, so that their competition such as smaller, family owned coffee shops are out of business. 
Then close the extra shops down. Saaaaavage

Edit: Someone commented the name of it, “Market Saturation”Friend used to own a coffee shop in our area that was widely popular due to high demand and low competition, so a big chain coffee shop decided to open next door to gain some of the profit...when they saw people weren't as interested and prefered my friends homemade coffee they did what I consider a guinness world records worthy dick move...to put things into perspective, they set the pricing on ALL (yes, all, regardless of ingredients, toppings, cupsize etc.) of their products at 0.99$ while my friend could only afford to sell it for 1.40$ minimum for a simple dark coffee...

Naturally, people were more willing to spend 99 cents on an xxl-mocha-late-decaf-gluten free frapuchino than a traditional dark coffee and in time my friend had to close up shop...

The story ends on a good note though, as when my friend eventually closed the big chain coffee shop reinstated their regular prices and people were no longer willing to pay 5-10$ for something they had for spare change a few days ago, so they eventually closed as well and my friend opened a place somewhere else in the meantime.This is called predatory pricing and it's illegal. Unfortunately it's hard to prove in court and even if a case were filed, giant corps can tie up legal battles for years and just win by attrition.


Letting people ass kiss their way to the top when they are highly unqualified. Happens more than it should and causes a lot of issues for people who are under them or who didn't get that position because they don't ass kiss, but are way more qualified.

Bribes are super common.

Over half of US university instructors are part-time faculty (paid per class, adjuncts and graduate students, non-full time, no job security, no benefits). Often these teachers commute school to school to cover enough hours to make a living wage.

Tenured professors work hard and deserve the benefits they receive (usually) but the rest of the faculty are barely making a living and can barely pay off their own school loans.

edit: [https://www.aaup.org/sites/default/files/10112018%20Data%20Snapshot%20Tenure.pdf](https://www.aaup.org/sites/default/files/10112018%20Data%20Snapshot%20Tenure.pdf)

Categorizing your employees as "salaried" simply so that you don't have to pay them overtime if they are forced to stay late.  


But wait - you came in late? Make up those hours.

“Convenience fees” for online transactions.

Lobbying the government to change the law to benefit your business.

You pay for electioneering, they get elected and hook you up (lower taxes, weakened regulations, etc.)

Hacking democracy

Zero hour contracts.

Basically you are a 'full time' employee, but have no set hours, and have to 'come when you're called', or otherwise be scheduled as they see fit.

Edit: lots of queries, here is a Wikipedia article on this issue that answers most questions better than I can.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-hour_contractAnd they don't get fired, they just stop getting hours, meaning they can't claim employment unless the quit (which can make it more difficult)


Mechanic doing work on your car you don't need.

I brought my car in when my axle broke to a shop I don't normally go to. The car was damaged beyond repair but they decided to add on a new set of tires before coming to that conclusion.if a shop does work like that without prior agreement/authorization, you don't have to pay for it

in the U.S., at least

Expensing items that should be capitalized.

Giving employees the boot because they are in their 50s and can be replaced by 20 somethings.

Especially when they might qualify for a pension after a few more years.

Universities/colleges charging students for 'official' transcripts

Giving people an hour below what is considered full time so they don’t need benefits. And also apparently changing people’s timecards frequently. Every job i’ve had has done that, and at the expense of my hours/pay too.Changing timecards is very illegal, not just unethical.My job had an E login system for the timecards and forbade us from looking at how many hours we had. I'd ask the boss to check it for me and he'd say, "you can do math, add it up by hand." However they changed their tune very quickly when I pointed out I somehow had been paid for 15 minutes less than my calculations.You should be legally allowed to know what your time looks like.

I work at the airport and they’ll knock off hours every so often so I don’t make overtime

Literally just got a guy fired at my place of work because he was changing his employees time cards. Taking just minutes off of time cards just to make it so the employee wouldn't get any overtime.


 Hiding all your assets and going into bankruptcy so you don't have to pay the people you screwed over with your addictive medications.

\- Insider trading

\- NepotismFun fact: JFK's dad got rich by inside trading back when it was still legal. He was later appointed head of the SEC.

The first thing he did was make insider trading illegal.That's actually a great strategy. Like the FBI hiring Frank Abignale to help them find check forgerers.
JFK’s dad got rich bootlegging during prohibitionFunny thing is that Pablo Escobar wanted something similar. He thought drug would be legalized and he would be a hero. A political family.




